Add Documentation - Framework reference (#1880)
kuzzleio/kuzzle: doc/2/framework/classes/backend-storage/properties/index.md

---
code: false
type: page
title: Properties
description: BackendStorage class properties
---

# BackendStorage

> The `BackendStorage` class allows to interact directly with the underlaying storage engine.  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `BackendStorage` class allows to interact directly with Elasticsearch.  
```

It is accessible from the [Backend.storage](/core/2/framework/classes/backend/properties#storage) property.

See the [Data Storage](/core/2/guides/main-concepts/2-data-storage#integrated-elasticsearch-client) guide.

## `esClient`

| Type                  | Description       | get / set |
|-----------------------|-------------------|-----------|

> | <pre>[Client](https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/elasticsearch/client/javascript-api/current/api-reference.html)</pre> | Lazy instantiated Elasticsearch Node.js client | get |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| <pre>[Client](https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/elasticsearch/client/javascript-api/current/api-reference.html)</pre> | Lazily instantiated Elasticsearch Node.js client | get |
```

**Usage:**

```js
const esRequest =  {
  body: {
    name: 'Aschen',
    age: 27
  },
  index: '&nyc-open-data.yellow-taxi',
  op_type: 'create'
}

await app.storage.client.index(esRequest)
```

## `ESClient`

| Type                  | Description       | get / set |
|-----------------------|-------------------|-----------|
| <pre>new (clientConfig?: any) =&gt; Client</pre> | Storage client constructor | get |

::: info

> By default the instantiated client will use the same config as Kuzzle to connect to Elasticsearch.  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By default, the instantiated client uses the same configuration than the one used by Kuzzle.  
```
